readme.md, before:

# Uiua Kernel <!-- omit in toc -->

IPython Kernel for the [Uiua](https://www.uiua.org/) programming language,
crudely implemented as a python wrapper.

> This is an experimental repo, and not currently part of the official Uiua project.

- [Usage / Development instructions](#usage--development-instructions)
- [1. Implementation Notes](#1-implementation-notes)
  - [1.1. Formatting](#11-formatting)
  - [1.2. Color Of Output](#12-color-of-output)
  - [1.3. Large Output; Sounds and Images](#13-large-output-sounds-and-images)
- [2. Future Direction](#2-future-direction)


## Usage / Development instructions

This repo is not ready for general use, although it does work, so only
development instructions are provided; It requires that
[Rust and Cargo and Uiua have already been installed](https://www.uiua.org/install)

```bash
git clone # ... url for this repo
cd # ... path to this repo
pip install -e .
jupyter kernelspec install ".\src\uiua_kernel" --user --log-level DEBUG 
```

## 1. Implementation Notes

### 1.1. Formatting

A Jupyter Kernel apparently cannot offer to format cell contents. This is still
a language server feature, and it is not clear if it can be triggered on cell
execution, like [Uiua pad](https://www.uiua.org/pad)

### 1.2. Color Of Output

`uiua eval` detects if it is running in an interactive terminal, and if not, it
does not appear to output ansi colour codes. The `eval` command offers a
`--no-color` flag, but it should also offer a `--always-color` flag I think

### 1.3. Large Output; Sounds and Images

Currently this seems impossible; `uiua eval` can only output a formatted text
stream.

The jupyter kernel apparently requires image data in a base64 encoded format.
Perhaps uiua could output a JSON-formatted output to facilitate appropriate
output rendering.

## 2. Future Direction

It seems to me like the best way forward is to implement the kernel directly in
rust, this would be much easier than maintaining this python wrapper. The
[`zmq`](https://crates.io/crates/zmq) crate and the
[jupyter docs](https://jupyter-protocol.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) are a good
place to start, also a good example to work from might be the
[evcxr](https://github.com/evcxr/evcxr) is basically a jupyter kernel for the
rust programming language itself (Insane, I know, but its very cool).

Commit message:

remove ansi2html and tidy

readme.md, after:

# Uiua Kernel <!-- omit in toc -->

IPython Kernel for the [Uiua](https://www.uiua.org/) programming language,
crudely implemented as a python wrapper.

> This is an experimental repo, and not currently part of the official Uiua project.

- [Usage / Development instructions](#usage--development-instructions)
- [1. Implementation Notes](#1-implementation-notes)
  - [1.1. Formatting](#11-formatting)
  - [1.2. Color Of Output](#12-color-of-output)
  - [1.3. Large Output; Sounds and Images](#13-large-output-sounds-and-images)
- [2. Future Direction](#2-future-direction)


## Usage / Development instructions

This repo is not ready for general use, although it does work, so only
development instructions are provided; It requires that
[Rust and Cargo and Uiua have already been installed](https://www.uiua.org/install)

```bash
git clone # ... url for this repo
cd # ... path to this repo
pip install -e .
jupyter kernelspec install ".\src\uiua_kernel" --user --log-level DEBUG 
```

## 1. Implementation Notes

### 1.1. Formatting

A Jupyter Kernel apparently cannot offer to format cell contents. This is still
a language server feature, and it is not clear if it can be triggered on cell
execution, like [Uiua pad](https://www.uiua.org/pad)

### 1.2. Color Of Output

I messed around with the python package `ansi2html` but im pretty sure the colour codes just aren't in the output. Maybe they are there but they are getting lost somehow in the mysterious machinery of `subprocess.Popen`.

`uiua eval` detects if it is running in an interactive terminal, and if not, it
does not appear to output ansi colour codes. The `eval` command offers a
`--no-color` flag, but it should also offer a `--always-color` flag I think.

### 1.3. Large Output; Sounds and Images

Currently this seems impossible; `uiua eval` can only output a formatted text
stream.

The jupyter kernel apparently requires image data in a base64 encoded format.
Perhaps uiua could output a JSON-formatted output to facilitate appropriate
output rendering.

## 2. Future Direction

It seems to me like the best way forward is to implement the kernel directly in
rust, this would be much easier than maintaining this python wrapper. The
[`zmq`](https://crates.io/crates/zmq) crate and the
[jupyter docs](https://jupyter-protocol.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) are a good
place to start, also a good example to work from might be the
[evcxr](https://github.com/evcxr/evcxr) is basically a jupyter kernel for the
rust programming language itself (Insane, I know, but its very cool).
